A case or in this video let's have a look at the count aggregate function.
So I've selected stuff from the Customers table and you can see it's return all the information we have
about our customers.
But you want to count the number of customers that we have in this table and to do that I can use the
Count aggregate function.
So in the new line type selects and then write counts and then we want to open up half Burkett's and
within the brackets per stall.
So we're counting store for all customers and a semi-colon.
And we can just run up and you can see as returns a value of one hundred and twenty.
So we have 120 writers in our customers table.
So we have 120 customers.
We can also count on a column.
So that's count last name
and you can see returns on June 20 again.
But now let's try and count first name
and you can see has just returned 114.
And this is because it's not counting no values.
So first name we have some no values because we didn't set the not no constraint.
So we have 6 no values.
So it's just returned the value of 114.
When is counting the first name.
So be careful of that.
And we can also add where clauses were made using aggregate functions.
So let's select count stock again from customers.
Let's add a WHERE clause that said where last name equals Smith
and you can see we have six Smiths in our table.
Let's try a second where close where first name is no.
So where first name is no
and you can see it returns 6 again.
So we have 6 customers who didn't provide us with first name.
So that proves the 120 114 we saw earlier count does not include no values when you're counting on a
specific column.
So that's it for the aggregate function for now.
Let's move on to the next video.